<!-- .slide: data-timing="5" -->
# CC212

Ceph Distributed Storage Fundamentals

<!-- Note --> 
CC212, which we’ve had there for a while now 
called Ceph Distributed Storage Fundamentals, and now we’ve made a
change to it — see if you can spot it —


<!-- .slide: data-timing="20" -->
# CC213

Ceph Distributed Storage Fundamentals

<!-- Note --> 
And now it’s *still* called Ceph Distributed Storage Fundamentals but
it has the course number CC213, because we’ve only semi-retired the
old one.

It has a ton of theoretical background information on Ceph, some very
basic, some of it is really pretty involved such as what are the
differences between running `rbd bench` and `fio` for RBD
benchmarking, or how does CephFS differ based on whether it’s accessed
via FUSE or from the Linux kernel filesystem driver.


<!-- .slide: data-background-video="videos/start-playbook.webm" data-background-size="contain" -->

<!-- Note --> 
And you’re building your very own Ceph cluster, with `ceph-ansible`,

and you do all sorts of interactive labs on it, some very basic, some
more advanced.

And of course, since this is all completely self-paced and automatic
and cloud driven: if you actually stuff something up beyond the point
of repair, and of course that’s a **good** thing to happen as you’re
learning, you just hit the big red Reset button and you get a
completely fresh and pristine environment where you can go back to
square one.


<!-- .slide: data-timing="30" -->
# New stuff!

Nautilus   <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

ceph-volume   <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

Dashboard   <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

EC   <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

<!-- Note --> 
Now in the most recent updates for CC213, which we just launched last
month, there’s a bunch of new stuff that we added:

* Everything is now on Nautilus, we’re not messing with Jewel and
  Mimic anymore, though we do still cover FileStore so we can include
  a full step-by-step conversion from FileStore to BlueStore.
  
* We’ve moved off of `ceph-disk` and do all of the deployment with
  `ceph-volume` now.

* We’ve got practical hands-on dashboard content,

* and we’re finally covering erasure-coded profiles and pools.

Add to that the usual smattering of updates related to the Nautilus
release, and you’ve got a very handy and useful and current course
that can serve as a very solid foundation to further explore Ceph.


<!-- .slide: data-background-image="images/cost.svg" data-background-size="contain" data-timing="5" -->

<!-- Note --> 
Oh, and about cost issues?


# Free

to 20 learners per month

first-come, first-served – follow
[@citycloud](https://twitter.com/citycloud) 

<!-- Note --> 
It’s free. We’re making it available to 20 learners a month, for free,
on a first-come, first-served basis.

These open seats usually go live on the first business day of the
month, and they’re announced on Twitter via
[@citycloud](https://twitter.com/citycloud) at a different time-of-day
each month (so we don’t always preferentially treat people in a
specific timezone).


# You can help!

<!-- Note --> 
Now I know some of you in this room *have* already taken this course,
and others no doubt will, so this is the part of the talk that **is**
totally for you — you can help us out.


## Feedback

<!-- Note --> 
Your feedback makes the course better. There’s a Discussion tab in
every course that you can use to interact both with fellow learners
and with course authors, and the more specific you can be with your
feedback, the better.


## Suggestions

<!-- Note --> 
If you have suggestions on what we should add or what we should change
or remove, you can tell us that too.


## Spread the word!

<https://academy.citycloud.com> <!-- .element: class="qrcode" -->

academy.citycloud.com

<!-- Note --> 
And finally, do tell others! You colleagues, your acquaintances,
people you meet. The more people take this course the better it gets.
